# R API client for databridges

API Documentation of the **DataBridges** platform: https://databridges.vam.wfp.org/. For API discussions and details: #api-integration-vam-data-bridges on Slack, [Teams channel](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/team/19%3a4ca595f7681f4ffa8a86b7af58832e8d%40thread.skype/conversations?groupId=cbd1e508-c6e8-459d-96b7-6cac3039c42c&tenantId=462ad9ae-d7d9-4206-b874-71b1e079776f) **API Integration** - This endpoint uses [Hey Jude](https://docs.api.wfp.org/providers/#api-patterns) pattern

## Overview
This API client was generated by the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech) project. By using the [OpenAPI spec](https://openapis.org) from a remote server, you can easily generate an API client.

- API version: 1.3.1
- Package version: 1.0.0
- Build package: org.openapitools.codegen.languages.RClientCodegen

## Installation

### Prerequisites

Install the dependencies

```R
install.packages("jsonlite")
install.packages("httr")
install.packages("base64enc")
```

### Build the package

```sh
git clone https://github.com/GIT_USER_ID/GIT_REPO_ID
cd GIT_REPO_ID
R CMD build .
R CMD check databridges_1.0.0.tar.gz --no-manual
R CMD INSTALL --preclean databridges_1.0.0.tar.gz
```

### Install the package

```R
install.packages("databridges")
```

To install directly from Github, use `devtools`:
```R
install.packages("devtools")
library(devtools)
install_github("GIT_USER_ID/GIT_REPO_ID")
```

To install the package from a local file:
```R
install.packages("databridges_1.0.0.tar.gz", repos = NULL, type = "source")
```

### Usage

```R
library(databridges)
```

### Reformat code

To reformat code using [styler](https://styler.r-lib.org/index.html), please run the following in the R console:

```R
install.packages("remotes")
remotes::install_github("r-lib/styler@v1.7.0.9003")
library("styler")
style_dir()
```

## Documentation for API Endpoints

All URIs are relative to *https://api.wfp.org/vam-data-bridges/1.3.1*

Class | Method | HTTP request | Description
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
*CommoditiesApi* | [**CommoditiesCategoriesListGet**](docs/CommoditiesApi.md#CommoditiesCategoriesListGet) | **GET** /Commodities/Categories/List | Provides the list of categories.
*CommoditiesApi* | [**CommoditiesListGet**](docs/CommoditiesApi.md#CommoditiesListGet) | **GET** /Commodities/List | Provide the detailed list of the commodities available in DataBridges platform
*CommodityUnitsApi* | [**CommodityUnitsConversionListGet**](docs/CommodityUnitsApi.md#CommodityUnitsConversionListGet) | **GET** /CommodityUnits/Conversion/List | Provides conversion factors to Kilogram or Litres for each convertible unit of measure.
*CommodityUnitsApi* | [**CommodityUnitsListGet**](docs/CommodityUnitsApi.md#CommodityUnitsListGet) | **GET** /CommodityUnits/List | Provides the detailed list of the unit of measure available in DataBridges platform
*CurrencyApi* | [**CurrencyListGet**](docs/CurrencyApi.md#CurrencyListGet) | **GET** /Currency/List | Returns the list of currencies available in the internal VAM database, with Currency 3-letter code, matching with ISO 4217.
*CurrencyApi* | [**CurrencyUsdIndirectQuotationGet**](docs/CurrencyApi.md#CurrencyUsdIndirectQuotationGet) | **GET** /Currency/UsdIndirectQuotation | Returns the value of the Exchange rates from Trading Economics, for official rates, and DataViz for unofficial rates.
*EconomicDataApi* | [**EconomicDataIndicatorListGet**](docs/EconomicDataApi.md#EconomicDataIndicatorListGet) | **GET** /EconomicData/IndicatorList | Returns the lists of indicators.
*EconomicDataApi* | [**EconomicDataIndicatorNameGet**](docs/EconomicDataApi.md#EconomicDataIndicatorNameGet) | **GET** /EconomicData/{indicatorName} | Returns the time series of values for different indicators.
*FoodSecurityApi* | [**FoodSecurityListGet**](docs/FoodSecurityApi.md#FoodSecurityListGet) | **GET** /FoodSecurity/List | 
*GorpApi* | [**GorpLatestGet**](docs/GorpApi.md#GorpLatestGet) | **GET** /Gorp/Latest | Return the latest dataset of number of acutely food insecure (in millions)  based on WFP Global Operational Response Plan.
*GorpApi* | [**GorpListGet**](docs/GorpApi.md#GorpListGet) | **GET** /Gorp/List | Return the full dataset of number of acutely food insecure (in millions) based on WFP Global Operational Response Plan.
*MarketPricesApi* | [**MarketPricesAlpsGet**](docs/MarketPricesApi.md#MarketPricesAlpsGet) | **GET** /MarketPrices/Alps | Returns time series values of ALPS and PEWI.
*MarketPricesApi* | [**MarketPricesPriceDailyGet**](docs/MarketPricesApi.md#MarketPricesPriceDailyGet) | **GET** /MarketPrices/PriceDaily | Returns a daily time series of commodity market prices.
*MarketPricesApi* | [**MarketPricesPriceMonthlyGet**](docs/MarketPricesApi.md#MarketPricesPriceMonthlyGet) | **GET** /MarketPrices/PriceMonthly | Returns a monthly time series of commodity market prices.
*MarketPricesApi* | [**MarketPricesPriceRawGet**](docs/MarketPricesApi.md#MarketPricesPriceRawGet) | **GET** /MarketPrices/PriceRaw | Returns original commodity market prices
*MarketPricesApi* | [**MarketPricesPriceWeeklyGet**](docs/MarketPricesApi.md#MarketPricesPriceWeeklyGet) | **GET** /MarketPrices/PriceWeekly | Returns a weekly time series of commodity market prices.
*MarketsApi* | [**MarketsGeoJSONListGet**](docs/MarketsApi.md#MarketsGeoJSONListGet) | **GET** /Markets/GeoJSONList | Provide a list of geo referenced markets in a specific country
*MarketsApi* | [**MarketsListGet**](docs/MarketsApi.md#MarketsListGet) | **GET** /Markets/List | Get a complete list of markets in a country
*MarketsApi* | [**MarketsMarketsAsCSVGet**](docs/MarketsApi.md#MarketsMarketsAsCSVGet) | **GET** /Markets/MarketsAsCSV | Get a complete list of markets in a country
*MarketsApi* | [**MarketsNearbyMarketsGet**](docs/MarketsApi.md#MarketsNearbyMarketsGet) | **GET** /Markets/NearbyMarkets | Find markets near a given location by longitude and latitude within a 15Km distance
*RpmeApi* | [**RpmeOutputValuesGet**](docs/RpmeApi.md#RpmeOutputValuesGet) | **GET** /Rpme/OutputValues | Processed values for each variable used in the assessments
*RpmeApi* | [**RpmeSurveysGet**](docs/RpmeApi.md#RpmeSurveysGet) | **GET** /Rpme/Surveys | Retrieve 1) Survey IDs, 2) their corresponding XLS Form IDs, and 3) Base XLS Form of all RPME surveys conducted in a country. The date of reference, SurveyDate, for the data collection is set by the officer responsible for the upload of each survey.
*RpmeApi* | [**RpmeVariablesGet**](docs/RpmeApi.md#RpmeVariablesGet) | **GET** /Rpme/Variables | List of variables
*RpmeApi* | [**RpmeXLSFormsGet**](docs/RpmeApi.md#RpmeXLSFormsGet) | **GET** /Rpme/XLSForms | Get a complete list of XLS Forms uploaded on the RPME in a given period of data collection. This is the digital version of the questionnaire used during the data collection exercise.
*SurveysApi* | [**MFISurveysBaseDataGet**](docs/SurveysApi.md#MFISurveysBaseDataGet) | **GET** /MFI/Surveys/BaseData | Get data that includes the core Market Functionality Index (MFI) fields only by Survey ID
*SurveysApi* | [**MFISurveysFullDataGet**](docs/SurveysApi.md#MFISurveysFullDataGet) | **GET** /MFI/Surveys/FullData | Get a full dataset that includes all the fields included in the survey in addition to the core Market Functionality Index (MFI) fields by Survey ID. To access this data, please contact global.mfi@wfp.org for authorization.
*SurveysApi* | [**MFISurveysGet**](docs/SurveysApi.md#MFISurveysGet) | **GET** /MFI/Surveys | Retrieve 1) Survey IDs, 2) their corresponding XLS Form IDs, and 3) Base XLS Form of all MFI surveys conducted in a country. A date of reference, SurveyDate, for the data collection is set by the officer responsible of the upload for each survey.
*SurveysApi* | [**MFISurveysProcessedDataGet**](docs/SurveysApi.md#MFISurveysProcessedDataGet) | **GET** /MFI/Surveys/ProcessedData | Get a MFI processed data in long format; levels indicate the data aggregation level 1) Normalized Score, 2) Trader Aggregate Score, 3) Market Aggregate Score, 4) Trader Median, 5) Trader Mean, 6) Market Mean; each line corresponds to one of the nine dimensions of scores plus the final MFI aggregate score; 1) Assortment, 2) Availability, 3) Price, 4) Resilience, 5) Competition, 6) Infrastructure, 7) Service, 8) Quality, 9) Access and Protection, and 10) MFI final score; the variable label describes each variable and its value range
*XlsFormsApi* | [**MFIXlsFormsDefinitionGet**](docs/XlsFormsApi.md#MFIXlsFormsDefinitionGet) | **GET** /MFI/XlsForms/definition | Get a complete set of XLS Form definitions of a given XLS Form ID. This is the digital version of the questionnaire used during the data collection exercise.
*XlsFormsApi* | [**MFIXlsFormsGet**](docs/XlsFormsApi.md#MFIXlsFormsGet) | **GET** /MFI/XlsForms | Get a complete list of XLS Forms uploaded on the MFI Data Bridge in a given period of data collection. This is the digital version of the questionnaire used during the data collection exercise.


## Documentation for Models

 - [BadRequestDTO](docs/BadRequestDTO.md)
 - [CommodityDTO](docs/CommodityDTO.md)
 - [CommodityPriceDTO](docs/CommodityPriceDTO.md)
 - [CommodityProcessingDTO](docs/CommodityProcessingDTO.md)
 - [CommodityQualityDTO](docs/CommodityQualityDTO.md)
 - [Coordinate](docs/Coordinate.md)
 - [CoordinateSequence](docs/CoordinateSequence.md)
 - [CoordinateSequenceFactory](docs/CoordinateSequenceFactory.md)
 - [CurrencyDTO](docs/CurrencyDTO.md)
 - [Dimension](docs/Dimension.md)
 - [EconomicIndicatorProperty](docs/EconomicIndicatorProperty.md)
 - [EconomicIndicatorPropertyPagedResult](docs/EconomicIndicatorPropertyPagedResult.md)
 - [Envelope](docs/Envelope.md)
 - [Geometry](docs/Geometry.md)
 - [GeometryFactory](docs/GeometryFactory.md)
 - [GorpValueWithChanges](docs/GorpValueWithChanges.md)
 - [GorpValueWithChangesPagedResult](docs/GorpValueWithChangesPagedResult.md)
 - [IAttributesTable](docs/IAttributesTable.md)
 - [IFeature](docs/IFeature.md)
 - [IpcValue](docs/IpcValue.md)
 - [IpcValuePagedResult](docs/IpcValuePagedResult.md)
 - [MFIProcessedDataDTO](docs/MFIProcessedDataDTO.md)
 - [NearbyMarketsDTO](docs/NearbyMarketsDTO.md)
 - [NtsGeometryServices](docs/NtsGeometryServices.md)
 - [OgcGeometryType](docs/OgcGeometryType.md)
 - [Ordinates](docs/Ordinates.md)
 - [PagedCommodityListDTO](docs/PagedCommodityListDTO.md)
 - [PagedCommodityPriceListDTO](docs/PagedCommodityPriceListDTO.md)
 - [PagedCommodityWeeklyAggregatedPriceListDTO](docs/PagedCommodityWeeklyAggregatedPriceListDTO.md)
 - [PagedCurrencyListDTO](docs/PagedCurrencyListDTO.md)
 - [PagedProcessedDataDTO](docs/PagedProcessedDataDTO.md)
 - [PagedSurveyListDTO](docs/PagedSurveyListDTO.md)
 - [PagedXlsFormListDTO](docs/PagedXlsFormListDTO.md)
 - [Point](docs/Point.md)
 - [PrecisionModel](docs/PrecisionModel.md)
 - [PrecisionModels](docs/PrecisionModels.md)
 - [ProblemDetails](docs/ProblemDetails.md)
 - [RpmeAssessment](docs/RpmeAssessment.md)
 - [RpmeAssessmentPagedResult](docs/RpmeAssessmentPagedResult.md)
 - [RpmeOutputValues](docs/RpmeOutputValues.md)
 - [RpmeVariable](docs/RpmeVariable.md)
 - [RpmeVariablePagedResult](docs/RpmeVariablePagedResult.md)
 - [SurveyDetailsDTO](docs/SurveyDetailsDTO.md)
 - [SurveyListDTO](docs/SurveyListDTO.md)
 - [UsdIndirectQuotation](docs/UsdIndirectQuotation.md)
 - [UsdIndirectQuotationPagedResult](docs/UsdIndirectQuotationPagedResult.md)
 - [ViewExtendedAggregatedPrice](docs/ViewExtendedAggregatedPrice.md)
 - [ViewExtendedAggregatedPricePagedResult](docs/ViewExtendedAggregatedPricePagedResult.md)
 - [ViewExtendedAlpsValue](docs/ViewExtendedAlpsValue.md)
 - [ViewExtendedAlpsValuePagedResult](docs/ViewExtendedAlpsValuePagedResult.md)
 - [WeeklyAggregatedPrice](docs/WeeklyAggregatedPrice.md)
 - [XlsFormDTO](docs/XlsFormDTO.md)
 - [XlsFormDefinitionDTO](docs/XlsFormDefinitionDTO.md)


## Documentation for Authorization


Authentication schemes defined for the API:
### Bearer

- **Type**: API key
- **API key parameter name**: Authorization
- **Location**: HTTP header

### default

- **Type**: OAuth
- **Flow**: implicit
- **Authorization URL**: https://api.wfp.org/authorize
- **Scopes**: 
  - `vamdatabridges_mfi-surveys-fulldata_get`: vamdatabridges_mfi-surveys-fulldata_get
  - `vamdatabridges_marketprices-priceraw_get`: vamdatabridges_marketprices-priceraw_get


## Author

wfp.economicanalysis@wfp.org
